[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> OK, so you have
the Big Bang theory,
the idea that the universe
started from a sub-Planck
length and an explosion ensued.
And all of a sudden, billions
of years later, we're all here.
Well, the question is
when scientists measure
this event in time value, they
measure the first millionth
of a second after the Big Bang.
They measure the first
100,000ths of a second and all
the way to the first second
and beyond as if somebody was
watching.
If there were no
organic lifeforms
at the time of the Big Bang,
was there a consciousness?
Was the universe self-aware?
Did the universe itself
see the Big Bang?
Did it hear it?
Did it feel it?
And if there was nobody
there, then how could
it have happened?
The big question is
about the Big Bang,
was there the big
consciousness first?
Did anybody see it?
And if this consciousness saw
it then and experienced the Big
Bang, then where is this
consciousness today?
Are there fields of awareness
in the fabric of space itself?
Is there a consciousness
beyond the physical?
Is this the secret
to enlightenment?
And can scientists verify
that the field of awareness
actually exists and
preexisted the Big Bang?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
6.6 billion people, one planet,
one global consciousness.
Why do we experience suffering?
Why is there war?
What is our true
potential to become
enlightened, individually
and as a civilization?
What was the fall from grace?
How do we become free again?
Over 9 million people worldwide
are incarcerated in prisons.
3.3 billion of the
world's populations
live in cities
geometrically designed
to serve and to enslave us in
perpetual debt and inflation
economics.
The question is,
is there a matrix?
Is there a proverbial
prison for our minds?
What is the matrix?
In mathematics, it is a
rectangular array of numbers
considered as a single entity.
A matrix is distinguished by
the number of rows and columns
it contains--
a building, house, or city.
The deeper level of the matrix
is that we are the matrix.
It is a simulation created
by the architect of our minds
to entertain us while we suffer.
All that we know as real
is actually a simulation
of reality, our inner reality.
The real question is how do we
attain freedom from the matrix,
transform our minds,
and attain liberation?
Every time a home
doubles in price,
people will have to drive
their cars twice as much
to make more money
to pay for it.
In 1988, as a nation, Americans
drove 1.5 trillion miles.
By 2007, that figure has doubled
to nearly 3 trillion miles
per year.
That means doubling greenhouse
gas emissions, air pollution,
oil production, and more
wars are fought over oil.
Everything costs
more, and inflation
chases the proverbial rabbit.
Is there a prison for our minds?
Today, human beings suffer
from more and more depression
than at any other
time in our history.
According to the World
Health Organization,
heart disease is the number one
cause of death in the world,
killing over 7.2
million people per year.
In the United States
of America, there
were 1.4 billion prescriptions
for antidepressants.
Millions of those were for
children under the age of 18.
The numbers of severely
depressed human beings
goes far beyond those that
are taking medication for it.
1 million people worldwide
commit suicide every year.
What is the answer
to our total freedom?
Is the answer hidden deep inside
of the mystical experience?
Is the answer to our
enlightenment available now?
Over 2000 BC, Judaism
begins with a covenant
between God and Abraham.
Its lineage goes
back even farther
to the time of Genesis, of Adam
and Eve, the birth of humanity.
Before 2200 BC, Krishna, the
Hindu incarnation of God,
taught the way to total
freedom from suffering
and the attainment of a non-dual
reality filled with inner voice
and inner realization.
By 1500 to 1200 BC, the
Hindu Vedic teachings
began, giving the foundations
for perpetual liberation
through the deep science
of mantra, sound,
and the true nature
of the mind and God.
In the sixth century
BC, Pythagoras
taught a lineage of an awakening
of intelligence, enlightenment
that influenced many of the
great mystics and scholars,
from Plato to Socrates,
creating the foundations
of the true democratic and
evolved political processes.
In the sixth century BC,
Gautama the Buddha's first words
upon attaining
nirvana while sitting
under the Bodhi Tree
in deep meditation was,
"There is suffering."
He then taught an
eightfold path that
leads to the cessation and
transcendence of suffering
by attaining enlightenment.
For those who attain it, they
become Buddhas, Tathagatas,
or Fully Enlightened Ones.
In the Common Era, Jesus
and his mother Mary
taught a way to end violence,
attain the kingdom of heaven
within, and wipe every
tear from every eye.
For his saints, such as
Saint Teresa of Avila,
Bernadette of Lourdes,
Francis of Assisi,
Dante Alighieri,
Emanuel Swedenborg,
there was the attainment
of enlightenment.
For his faithful
followers, there
is the bountiful
new paradise earth.
Today, global destruction of the
ecology, war, disease, death,
oppression, depression,
and enlightenment all
exist at the same time.
Humanity now faces
a critical juncture.
What if we can attain
enlightenment individually,
one light bulb at a time?
What if humanity can
survive all the challenges
it faces and live in an
age of sustainability?
What if humanity,
with the awakening
of deeper intelligence
and enlightenment,
can advance science
to the point that they
can enter an
interstellar community
and meet with other
civilizations?
What have we lost by
turning our backs away
from the deep mystical
teachings, practices,
and experience inside of
all of our own religions?
Can it help guide us to an
awakening of intelligence
to end war, depression,
disease, and help guide us
on our journey towards
a new civilization?
>> Considering global
warming, sewage pollution,
and the "Inconvenient
Truth" of Al Gore,
the proof that we may be heading
towards a mass extinction event
through either global
warming causing an ice age--
>> Yes.
>> --or, two, global warming
causing massive virus
outbreaks, what is the Tibetan
Buddhist view on an exodus from
a planet?
If we destroy this planet
and we are psychologically
and ecologically involved
in its destruction,
where do 6 and 1/2
billion souls go?
Where do they find a new home
if they seek reincarnation?
>> Well, first of all, from the
point of view of the Buddhists,
the planet is not destroyed.
Even though we are trashing
it, we will come to our senses,
they predict, and it
will not be destroyed.
We may go through more
hardships and so on.
But a total ice age,
or a total meltdown,
or a nuclear holocaust
is not going to happen,
according to their predictions.
That doesn't mean
that's so, but it
means that's what they think.
So that's point one.
I always thought ever
since of the Death Star
incident in "Star Wars" where
Obi-Wan and Luke are flying
somewhere, and then there's
a shudder and a disturbance
in the Force because the
Death Star has actually
destroyed a particular planet
with many billions of souls
on it, and Obi-Wan
shudders, you know?
But I was taught that in
the Buddhist cosmology,
there's billions and trillions
and countless numbers
of planets with
humanoid beings on them.
We've been on many other
planets many times.
>> Oh, wow.
>> We will be on many other
planets many other times.
And we will, therefore,
all the souls of any--
if a whole planet was destroyed
in a supernova Death Star,
their souls would be
reborn other places.
And we ourselves have been
through many Big Bangs and Big
Crunches, all
beings, because life
is beginningless from the
point of view of the Buddhists.
And so there's always
more places to live.
However, the sort
of archangels, you
could say, the Bodhisattvas,
the compassionate beings who
are making a huge
effort although they
didn't create the world.
They don't create, and
they don't control people
absolutely.
On a relative sense, they're
quite powerful in they're
trying to arrange
circumstances for living beings
to be optimal for them to
wake up and become themselves
Bodhisattvas and
become enlightened.
So from a Buddhist
point of view,
they will do a lot
in their power,
and they do have considerable
power, to prevent us
from destroying ourselves.
In other words,
the way we behave
as human beings, our
governments and everything,
and our chauvinistic, especially
male chauvinist habits,
having had nuclear weapons
now for over 50 years, that we
haven't killed
each other totally
or had a nuclear holocaust
is in itself a miracle.
And that Tibetan Buddhists
would argue this miracle
is not really a miracle.
It is the miraculous activity
of enlightened angelic beings.
But not an
omnipotent-- they don't
believe in an omnipotent
deity that absolutely controls
everything because
then you'd have
to blame the bad
situation on that deity.
>> On a god.
>> And that's illogical.
That's very irrational.
But that there are these
powerful angelic forces seeing
to it that we continue
to learn our lessons,
that we use this theater of life
to evolve in an optimal, mostly
rapid way toward
our enlightenment,
that is what the Mahayana
Buddhists would believe.
>> You know, when you
read mystical experiences,
it appears it's far out there,
so difficult to achieve it some
way in a distant world.
But when it comes to as an
experience, it is so real.
It's so real.
It's such a simple and
practical thing to be.
There is one rule
for those who are
go into deep
experiences of samahdi,
that they're not supposed
to share it with others.
You know the reason?
Because the student
starts imagining
that type of state or start
craving for that state.
And that craving for a
particular experience
becomes an impediment in
getting that experience.
>> So many stories
of an enlightenment,
you see yourself on forest.
You hear your voice on
dripping sound or chirping
birds or breeze.
You see yourself outside of you.
That is moment of
extra enlightenment.
You don't belong to
this body and mind.
>> We have all the major
religions in the world share
their near-death experiences
with it some point or another,
including atheists, including
people with no religion.
It's true.
Even atheists, even
people who absolutely
profess no belief
in God whatsoever
can have near-death experiences.
And when atheists have
near-death experiences,
they're just like the near-death
experiences of everybody else.
They're positive, blissful, have
the same sequence of elements.
Of course, for
atheists, after they
have this type of
near-death experience,
it's almost impossible for them
to continue to be atheists.
Time and time again we've
had people that will say,
hey, I was an atheist.
I had this near-death
experience.
And, wow, I had to
change my beliefs.
Now I understand there
is a higher power.
I understand there is a god.
I understand there's
an afterlife.
I understand there's much,
much more to my consciousness
than I ever realized.
And it's almost
impossible for someone
to continue to cling to
those atheist beliefs
after they've had such
a profound experience
as a near-death experience.
>> And I was sitting in my
old house in Redondo Beach
on the couch, just
sort of by myself,
not doing much of anything,
just sort of thinking.
And I looked up
towards our stairs.
And I saw-- it was the most kind
of amazing thing I'd ever seen.
It would be as if there
was a dimensional warp
or something opened.
There was like a sparkling.
And then out of that
sparkling appeared my father.
But he was in his
absolute prime.
He passed away when he was 79.
In this vision, he was maybe
35 to 38, something like that,
and smiling and grinning.
And I could see--
I sort of went
with the experience
because I was so
shocked that I saw him.
I could see through him,
and yet it was there.
So it was obviously an
apparition of some sort.
I mean, it was his spirit,
yet he was very real.
And I could certainly
make out that it was him
and had the whole--
you know, his whole
body actually appeared.
And as he kind of floated
down the stairs towards me,
I'm in shock.
And I go, Dad?
And he goes, you were
right, you big stinker.
And I laughed.
And what that was in
relationship to is,
over the years, we'd had an
ongoing debate about life
after death.
And my own experience
was and my belief
was that there is more to life
and that the spirit certainly
survives the shell of the body.
And he was very agnostic
at best, if not an atheist,
and said, no, I don't
believe any of it.
You know, when you're
dead, you're dead.
And he comes over, and
he basically sits down
at the other end of the couch.
And I'm going with
this not believing
that it's actually happening.
And yet it's happening.
And we then in
the next half hour
or so, time kind of stopped.
I don't really know
how long it was,
but it seemed like
not enough time.
And yet I was able to
tell him all of my hurts,
and things that we
didn't experience,
and how come you
did certain things?
And he was able to tell
me that he was sorry
and how much he had loved me.
And it was the kind of
intimacy and exchange--
I might get tears
in my eyes again--
where he opened in a
way that he could never
do when we were alive.
We never had this
kind of an experience.
And right at the key
moment where I really felt
a sense of love
and companionship
with him that I had never
felt, he started to fade away.
And he started to, like,
sort of move up into the air.
And I go, Dad, and I was crying.
I said, Dad, don't go.
Don't go.
And he continued to move up.
And I'm watching him go up.
And that same kind
of a sparkling thing
happened like I saw at the
top of the stairs originally.
And as he was kind of
fading away and moving
towards the ceiling, he
said, Michael, remember,
I'm only a thought away.
And then the last one
sort of faded out.
He goes, I'm only
a thought away.
The he went out
through the ceiling.
And then the sparkling stopped.
>> And here we are as
a biological system,
relatively tiny on a relatively
tiny planet in a relatively
tiny solar system in a
relatively tiny galaxy compared
to the scope of the universe
that we can see through
telescopes.
And yet this mind that exists in
our individual consciousnesses,
in each and every
one of us, this mind
has the capability to envision
things as tiny as superstrings
and go from the macro--
I mean, the micro-micro up
through atoms, and molecules,
and cells, and organs,
and people, and planets,
and solar systems,
and universes.
And literally, we
could imagine ourselves
holding ourselves
envisioning the consciousness
of everything.
And the conclusion I come to
is that our minds are bigger
than the entire universe.
Our minds, our consciousness
has the capability
to go from the small to the awe.
And that capability
exists in every one of us.
The question is,
will we tap into it?
Will we develop the skills to
be able to go from the micro
to the macro?
Will we develop the skills
to be able to integrate
all this information?
And that's where the developing
the tools of consciousness
becomes part of our
great challenge.
>> And he had been
saving them for-- well,
he had met Kirpal Singh 25 years
earlier when Kirpal Singh gave
these to him.
So apparently, this
food is blessed.
And it holds some
example, or it--
there's a spiritual energy put
into this food or any article,
I believe.
And they're called prasad.
So, yeah, it is if
you eat this stuff,
you'll get a spiritual
experience that somewhat--
I don't even know the intention.
I guess the intention
is to encourage
you to believe that there's
a spiritual dimension
and this is some benefit to you.
So he offers me this
one grain of rice
that he's been
saving for 25 years.
And we're sitting in his kitchen
at Santa Cruz, California.
And it was rather instantaneous.
He and I were both
seated at the same table.
And it seemed as
though-- you know,
it seemed my consciousness
moved beyond my body.
And it went beyond the
kitchen we were in.
And it went beyond
the house we were in.
And it was very strange
because this part of me
that I identify as myself,
like right here in this chair,
literally seemed
to go beyond this.
Like this vase
over here, I really
felt like I was that vase.
You know, here's my arm.
That's definitely me.
But that was like
that vase was me too.
And then beyond that, I
was becoming the walls
in the building.
And then I was becoming the
buildings beyond the building.
And it was really frightening.
It was very frightening.
And it kept going.
And I went through
the whole city.
And I kind of have the idea
of what was in the city.
Like-- and this sounds insane.
But anyway, it went
beyond the city.
It went beyond the world.
And I felt as though
I was going into space
and my consciousness was
expanding through space.
Now this sounds
crazy, of course.
But nevertheless, I got the idea
of inhabited worlds in space,
what they were like, and this
idea of the volume and vastness
of space that I'd never
been able to comprehend
before this time.
And it was absolutely
terrifying.
And it just kept going.
So this kept happening.
We're expanding out to space
for, I guess, maybe 40 minutes.
And we're clutched onto the
corner of the kitchen table.
We're seated at the
table, and our arms
are wrapped around this table
holding on for dear life.
I don't want to
put that in this,
but-- and tears are
dripping from our eyes
to the table, both he and I.
And I'm saying, are you
experiencing the same thing?
He's over there nodding.
He can't really speak.
And we are just going, please,
we can't take it anymore.
Please, turn this off.
And we're believing Kirpal
Singh is a real entity.
I mean, you got the idea,
and with a clear-- well,
not the idea.
It was clear that Kirpal Singh
was responsible for this.
It was though he was an entity
who was right there taking you
on this journey.
And, oh, you couldn't see him.
There was just-- the presence
of that was very real.
And so anyway,
essentially, we were just
begging for him to
turn it off because we
thought we were gonna die.
I mean, that was the idea.
It was just you can't survive
this kind of experience
without some trouble.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Tell where they were.
>> OK.
So I think we need
to preface that we
were going through a
transformational change
at that point.
And we had started
seeing flashes
of light, the experience that I
had had in my living room where
I was reading the magazine.
And we had a two-way fireplace.
I was in one living room,
and the fireplace also
was two-way into the
other living room.
And all the lights were
off in the house except
for my reading lamp.
And it was late at
night, and I was
flipping through the magazine.
And through this time, I was
asking to see the angels.
I always had a lot of faith in
prayer and was doing healings,
but I wanted to see them.
And so one evening,
I was flipping
through just thinking
about the kids
and what I was
going to get them.
And then I just
felt this presence.
And I slowly looked over to my
shoulder through the fireplace,
and this amazing flash
of blue-white light,
like lightning bolts or
like about 50 light bulbs,
went off in the living
room and just flashed
through the entire house.
And from that point on,
the kids have started
seeing the flashes of light.
And then we moved to Scottsdale.
And that's when they
were experiencing
the balls of light.
And we started having
more visions of angels.
So what color was
the ball of light?
>> Oh, mostly white
with a splash of gold.
But what was really
strange about it
is that if I would have
something blocking my view,
I'd usually get
really irritated.
But it was more
calming than ever.
>> What would get irritated?
>> Like, I'd be watching TV.
Then Alex would go
in front of the TV.
And I'd sort of get mad.
But it would sort
of be-- see, I'd
look at maybe a
chair or something.
And the light would
be in front of it,
and I couldn't really see it.
But it wouldn't bother me.
It was calming.
>> Oh, so it irritated you
if something got in front
of the ball.
>> No, no.
>> The ball that--
>> No.
He's saying,
normally, if Alex got
in front of the TV,
that would irritate him.
But the balls of white
didn't irritate you.
>> Oh, OK.
>> Yeah, they were calming.
It made--
>> Mother--
>> So they were very calming.
>> Centering, they were
very centering, yeah.
>> They had a presence.
>> Very centering, he said.
>> Yeah.
>> You felt a presence
with these balls of light.
>> Oh, yes.
>> How big were they?
Describe with your hands.
>> Um, like this.
>> Wow.
>> That's big.
>> It's pretty big.
>> And they were a
gold and white light.
>> Yeah.
>> And do you believe other
people could see these?
Or do you think you're seeing
into the invisible world
that people don't see?
>> Um, I don't know.
I mean, I know there are
people more spiritual
than me, like the monks.
And maybe they see them or--
I don't really know.
I mean, I'm pretty sure I'm
seeing something invisible
to the most human.
>> So Alexandria, why don't you
tell about the bubbles of light
that both you and Adam see?
But you would see the
bubbles all the time.
She would always
go to bed and say,
I see the bubbles
that are around me.
>> Every, like--
wherever I look,
and if I close my
eyes and open them,
I'll see like a bubble or a
zig-zag of different colors,
red and blue, the
rainbow colors.
And if it's really dark, I'll
see a ton of little bubbles
like that big.
And they'll be all over the
place just floating around.
>> Wow.
I'm really blown away.
I want to see those bubbles.
Actually, only one time
in my life when I saw
bubbles, and that's
when I was hypothermic.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> OK, first of all, let's
talk about what do we mean
by invisible.
And then we'll address this
to the question of apparitions
and spirits and all other forms
of, quote, "invisible beings."
What science has
taught us, which
I find to be utterly
extraordinary,
is that our visual experience,
which is totally brilliant,
only sees a tiny sliver of all
the vibrations of photons that
exist in the known universe.
So if I look
outdoors, for example,
and I can see tens of thousands
of rocks, and tens of thousands
of leaves, and
hundreds of thousands
of hues of colors
and shapes and sizes,
it can fill my consciousness,
my visual consciousness,
with all these details.
And yet all that complexity
and all that experience
is more than--
I don't know how to explain
how tiny this sliver is.
Let me give an example
of how little we see.
If we imagine the size of
the Empire State Building
as reflecting all the known
frequencies of light that
exists in this room
right now, and then we
ask how much of those vibrations
can we see with our naked eye,
do we see 50 stories, 10
stories worth of the vibration?
One story of the vibration?
One foot of the vibration?
What science tells
us is the amount
that we see in our
consciousness is
smaller than the grain of sand.
So what we are seeing
with all this breadth is
a grain of sand compared to
the Empire State Building
of vibration, of light.
So most things that exist
are called invisible to us.
Our senses are
extraordinarily limited.
Our normal senses are
But we can go
beyond those senses
when we develop certain
higher forms of awareness
and consciousness.
We can also do it with science.
In fact, what science
can be thought of
is the process of making
the invisible visible.
We take frequencies
we cannot see.
And then we transform them.
We either increase
or decrease them
and put them into the little
grain of sand of the spectrum
that we can see.
And now all of a sudden,
we can see the invisible
with technology.
So once you become aware
that most of what exists
is invisible-- and
it's all light.
It's all light.
We're talking about just the
vibrations of photons here.
Then the idea that there
could be apparitions,
or there could be
angels, or there
could be any number
of beings or processes
that are not part of
our everyday experience
becomes extraordinarily
plausible.
We just have to then
use our technology
and apply it to these processes,
these questions, these beings.
And that's what
happening now in science.
We're beginning to take this
super sensitive technology
developed for other purposes,
and we're applying it
to these other realms.
>> But if I'm sleeping, I can
go into like a different state
of consciousness where
I wake up, but I won't.
My body might be awake.
I can see people
sitting on my bed.
And it always depends on
what state I'm in, as well,
or what types of energies
I'm attracting to me.
Now that I'm working
on a clear energy,
I usually attract
gods and things
like that who can communicate
to me through the night.
OK, so my aunt--
actually, it was about--
it happened when I
was 19 years old.
I'd been seeing spirits
on and off as a child
but never really
taking it seriously.
But when I was
about 19 years old,
my aunt had died probably
four years before that.
But I was going
through a tough stage.
And I was looking
for a transition.
And one night, I was asleep.
And my body was
paralyzed, obviously,
because your body goes into that
state sometimes when you sleep.
And then I must have
just been drifting off,
and it was like my astral
body sat up out of my body.
And I remember looking down
and seeing my body down there.
And then there was a lady
sitting on my window sill.
And she was a lot younger.
And I didn't communicate
verbally to her,
but it was a telepathic thing.
I could tell that I was
connected with her thoughts,
and she was connected with mine.
And I said to her in my
thoughts, who are you?
And as soon as I said that,
I got a flash of my auntie
when she was about 83 years old.
I think that was the
age when she died.
And then I knew that it was her.
So I started saying,
you know, why you here?
What you need, to
give me a message?
And she just started to
telepathically tell me
that everything's
OK, and you need
to move to Sydney, which
is across the other side
of the country.
And there had been a few
thoughts come into my mind
about wanting to move and
needing a transition because I
felt really stuck.
But because I was
so young, it was
really hard to make
such a decision
to move across the country.
So she kind of came to me, and
she guided me a little bit.
Then I just laid
back in my body.
And I woke up the next
morning, and I remembered it
all so vividly.
And that sort of made me
make that grand a decision.
And then I left probably
about six months later.
>> So how did it affect
you to see someone?
I mean, did it confirm
for you that we live on,
to see someone that
was your own relative?
>> Yeah, definitely.
And a lot of people
are skeptic out there
because maybe they haven't
had the experience.
And I think, as a
child, I had a lot
of those types of experiences.
But because older people and
parents and things like that,
it's not really the
thing to believe.
I kind of shut it out.
But having a deep
experience like that,
and seeing my auntie
come to me, and actually
being able to come out
of my body and for it
to be so real just really
reconfirmed it in my mind.
>> Yes.
When I was little when we
first moved into Arizona,
I put my hand down by a
lizard, and the lizard just
crawled onto me.
And I just like animals
a lot, and I like
to save their life sometimes.
>> What do you think of Nuala?
>> She's cute.
>> She's really happy with you.
She looks all blissed-out.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So, Alex, you just
saw a man in our house?
>> Yep.
Outside the bathroom window.
>> Right out-- oh, he
was outside the house?
>> Yeah.
>> Can you show me?
Walk with me, and show me where.
>> Did he appear and disappear?
Or--
>> Oh, I just saw him.
He was-- see that
big bush right there?
>> Yeah.
>> The big, giant-- he was
sitting right under it.
>> Under this tree?
>> Yeah.
>> Right to the right?
>> He's-- it was all
the way up there.
>> All the way up there.
Wow.
So you're drawing a
picture of him then.
You just saw him.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Let's go look at your picture
that you're gonna draw.
I'm getting
goosebumps like crazy.
Look at them.
Look at all my goosebumps.
>> We don't have any.
>> Oh, you are.
I can go get some.
I really want to do--
>> I've got goosebumps.
>> You'll teach her.
>> Here, draw feet.
>> I felt a very Native Indian
presence the last time we were
up in Sedona.
>> Is there a way for people--
I mean, these invisible
cities like Shambhala.
I mean, again, when
the mind is pure,
do they actually see a city.
>> Shambhala's not a city.
Shambhala, supposedly,
is a country
with 96 million inhabitants--
>> Wow.
>> --near the North Pole,
somewhere like in the North
Pole area, surrounded by all
kind of rows of ice mountains
and with a force field that
covers it that makes it
invisible.
But it's a huge country.
And they have 96 provinces,
each one with a million citizens
and 96 capitals.
The central one,
Kalapa, is there.
I mean, in the
legend of Shambhala,
that's what Shambhala
is, not like one city.
>> Right.
>> That's gonna
create confusion.
And it's not in the
Gobi and all that.
It could be somewhere like
in the north of Mongolia,
therefore, in the
North Pole area.
No, Shambhala's up there.
In about 300-400 years,
apparently, the veil is lifted
and we see Shambhala.
>> Why?
>> And then the Shambhala just
kind of help us out and get us
past our phase of militarism.
And then the Dharma becomes
very widespread for about 1,800
years, supposedly.
>> 300 or 400 years,
you said, from now?
>> Yeah, 300 or
400 years from now.
>> From now, Shambhala
will reveal itself?
>> Yeah.
And then it directs.
You know, there's a
little bit of a buffeting,
a little bit of a scrap.
>> That's incredible.
>> And then like an Armageddon
type of scrap, but then,
basically, the whole
planet goes toward peace.
And there is a Golden Age
of 1,800 years, they say.
But I can't imagine that it
would be only 1,800 years,
but maybe.
And there's a very Golden Age
of people being very loving,
and developing wisdom, a lot of
education, a lot of meditation,
and a lot of spirituality, and
way past violence, equality
of the genders, of the
sexes, male and female--
no more male-dominated, but
also no female-dominated,
but equality.
And a really wonderful
era, they believe,
will ensue at that time.
And I'm always protesting
with the Tibetans
that I think their calculations
are wrong because I don't think
the planet can last that
long under the present stress
of militarism and exploitation.
And it should-- either they're
hiding the true calculation
or the calculation is off.
>> Which would be sooner.
>> And it should be
sooner, I feel, personally.
But that's just my own--
they just laugh when I say that.
The Dalai Lama actually says
that he doesn't believe in it
at all, that he's not into
prophecies, that people should
live according to their practice
that they can do right then
and there and
shouldn't sit waiting
for something to happen.
>> Right now.
>> And that's what
he likes to say.
And in another sense,
there's a few stray theories
that actually
Shambhala's already here
and is a matter of
turning your awareness.
And then you just don't even
notice all these morons running
around shooting each other.
>> Well, essentially, what
happens is, your spirit does,
you find yourself cooking
through some last edges
of resistance.
You find yourself becoming so
present in this very moment.
You're so inside of your body.
You're so dealing with
the edges of resistance
that you might be
feeling somewhere
in your energy system.
And by surrendering
deeply into it,
by going into it as
opposed to skipping out
and avoiding it in some
way, by going right
through the core of
your last resistances,
it's like suddenly you
feel all of your energy
almost like releasing
and expanding.
And my experiences often have
been through the third eye
where there's like last areas
of resistance and the energy
is just--
you know, it kind of like
it burns through there.
And suddenly,
there's an expansion.
And you realize that,
oh my god, more of me
is outside of my body
than is in my body.
Yet you are simultaneously
in your body.
And you have the
peculiar sensation
of being in a place
of singularity
where there are no boundaries.
>> And I did my first three-day
intensive Buddhist retreat
where you sit.
We had all these people, like
20 or 30 people, in our house.
And my dad led this retreat.
And you sat cross-legged, back
straight, one hour at a time,
five-minute break, one hour
at a time, five-minute break.
And by the end of the day,
you're meditating 12 hours.
I mean, I've climbed mountains.
I have skied down
55-degree slopes.
I've jumped off 30-foot cliffs.
I planted trees for 22 years.
And I'm telling you,
there's nothing harder
than sitting in this posture,
cross-legged with the hands
folded and the legs
crossed, back straight,
not leaning against the wall,
sitting, for 12 hours a day.
It is the hardest
thing I've ever done.
And it's not only physically
challenging to hold
that posture for so
many hours a day,
but it's mentally
challenging just
to stare into my
mind, and my thoughts,
and my emotions all day long
with no distractions, no TV,
no phones, very little
food, and just doing that.
And then we did
this for three days.
On the second day of the
retreat, my legs were shaking.
I couldn't even sit properly.
I mean, my legs were bent
upwards, and I was shaking.
My eyes and my back was hurting.
And all of a sudden, after
hours of boredom and just
staring at this opaque
nothingness, and the breath,
and watching the breath,
and doing this technique
called Insight Meditation,
all of a sudden, in my belly,
right down in here, there was
this just cracking explosion
of ecstasy.
It was so bright.
It happened so fast.
And I just are bursting
out laughing hysterically.
And I would fight
it and try to stop
laughing because there were all
these people in the meditation
room.
And pretty soon, I
started laughing so hard.
I just had to leave.
I had to get up and go outside.
And when I walked outside,
it was like I didn't even
have a body anymore.
I mean, I had the arms and
the legs, and I could walk.
But I was in this
ethereal space.
And I remember walking through
this grassy field in the park
in Vancouver, Canada.
And I came upon these
three weeping willow trees
with them blowing in the wind.
And when the wind blew through
the trees, I was the tree.
I was the wind
caressing the tree.
I could feel it just
like I can feel my face
and my eyes and my skin.
I could actually feel it.
I was in this extended
consciousness.
And not only that, there was
this supernatural ecstasy
bathing the trees.
And it just seemed to get
deeper and deeper and deeper.
I got so lost in these trees.
And I remember these
birds, these crows,
walking on the grass.
And it tickled me when
they walked in the grass
because they were walking on me.
It's like I was
connected to the whole.
And all of a sudden--
this vast consciousness, this
beautiful, peaceful ecstasy.
It was not like an
exhilarating kind of a high.
It was this smooth ecstasy.
All of a sudden,
I could hear what
the Hindus call
"the sound of OM,"
the all-pervading
sound of the universe.
I could hear every plant, every
tree, every blade of grass.
Every unique plant
had its own sound.
And the sound was very
silent but very obvious
in this consciousness.
And all of the sounds
of all living things
were blending into this
symphony of the sound of OM.
And I looked up.
I remember looking up and
looking up at the sun.
And I was just in awe.
And I was like, oh my
god, I can hear the sun.
The sun was making this very
high-pitched frequency sound
combined with a very
low-frequency sound together.
And it was also in
the symphony of OM.
And the sound of
everything was merging.
And I walked.
And it just felt like I was
made of pure consciousness.
I was no longer the body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the sixth century
BC, Pythagoras taught that
a harmonic sound was
produced from the motion
of the celestial bodies.
The sun, the planets, and
the stars in the heavens
were producing a sort of cosmic
music as they pulse from within
and travel along the vibrating
strings of their orbits.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
Pythagoras actually
experienced going
beyond his physical boundaries
with his consciousness
and hearing what is now called
"the music of the spheres."
He believed anyone who purified
their senses could have
this experience, quote, "Such
a one will perceive things
invisible to others
and will hear
things inaudible by others."
With this enlightenment
and wisdom,
Pythagoras gave birth
to classical music
and the intervallic system
we use to write music today.
He saw three phases of music;
the musica humana, the music
of a human being as
the human instrument;
the music
instrumentalis, the music
of the voice and
musical instruments;
and the musica mundana,
the music of the cosmos.
The human musical body
and mind is an instrument
which if tuned
and purified could
expand its awareness into
the world and cosmic beyond.
>> I thought--
I thought I was seeing
my scuba diving bubbles.
I thought I was seeing--
from the mask and
from the tank, I
thought I was
seeing the bubbles.
And they were beautiful.
They were soap-bubbles-like.
And I was moving with
these incredible bubbles,
moving so fast.
And as I was moving
with these bubbles,
I kept thinking, well,
somebody's saving me,
that I'm being saved.
And I move with these bubbles.
And I could see in front of me.
I could see behind me.
I could see on top of me, left
of me, and the right of me.
And all of a sudden, I realized
I couldn't see my body.
There was no body.
I was a bubble.
I must have been a bubble.
I was a spirit.
I was moving with these
bubbles, and I was a light.
And these lights
were like diamonds.
All sides, there were a
kaleidoscope of colors,
of beautiful, soapy bubbles.
And as we moved, as
the speed quieted down,
almost tai chi slowed
down, time stopped.
It slowed down too.
And there was no beginning,
and there was no end.
I was in the now.
And the now had a voice.
The now had energy.
The now was orgasmic in quality.
It was brilliantly, orgasmically
gorgeous, exploding--
voices of beauty, of grace,
of love, billions and billions
of voices.
And then it sang.
And I was singing.
I was vibrating in this energy.
I was vibrating.
And I was singing my song.
I was singing all the things
that I had experienced
in body that were beautiful.
And as the energy
passed through me
and vibrated from me
like a tuning fork,
I was singing my melody.
And the melody was part of
heaven's melody and part
of heaven's light.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[VOCALIZING]
>> Asking what it feels like
when I sing is actually--
is actually the one question
that doesn't mean anything
because the whole point
of chanting and, I guess,
spiritual practice in general
is to engage yourself completely
in the practice.
There's no one there to
be evaluating, or thinking
about it, or saying, wow, this
is really good, or this is bad,
or I should try harder.
You reach a certain point
where you've given 100%.
At that point,
there's nobody left.
There's no part of you
left to be noticing
how it feels at the time.
>> Why if we are exclusivity
content in ourselves.
That is total life, total
value over your life.
You know, body and
mind is yourself.
But if you really
achieve anatta,
if you really see yourself
outside of your body,
you are released from
this clumsy body and mind.
That is a real achievement.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The human aura is
our very own glowing,
living energy field that extends
beyond our physical boundaries.
While invisible
to most humans, it
is the light
extension of our soul.
In rare cases of
enlightened individuals,
such as Krishna and Radha,
Buddha, Kuan Yin, Jesus, Mary,
and other enlightened
beings or saints,
it was said that
you could actually
see a huge, luminous sphere,
nimbus, or halo expanding
beyond their head region.
People were so affected
by the divine presence
of these masters that,
when coming in contact
with their aura, enlightenment
was transmitted through it
as they felt the
presence of God.
What about ordinary
human beings?
Do we have our own halo or aura?
The human aura is comprised
as a single, large halo
or sphere that extends
beyond the human body.
Its components are made up of
seven primary energy centers.
The first, being the root
or sex energy center,
is symbolized by
the color red and is
located near the tail bone.
Second is the
life-force connector,
symbolized by the color
orange and located just
below the navel or belly button.
The third is the doer or
motivator energy center,
symbolized by the color
yellow and located just
below the sternum
or heart center.
The fourth is our heart,
symbolized by the color green.
This is our love center.
Fifth is our throat,
symbolized by the color blue.
This is our
communications center.
The sixth energy center is
symbolized by the color violet.
Located in the middle
of our forehead,
it is the inner eye or
inner vision center.
The seventh energy
center is located
at the crown of the head
and is symbolized by white.
It is our universal
connector center.
All of these energy
centers correspond
to our physiological organs and
our vital and subtle energies.
While scientific studies of
human consciousness in the past
have been limited to brain-wave
mapping with EEGs and brain
scanning with magnetic
resonance imaging,
Kirlian photography was
the first breakthrough
to demonstrate that
we could actually take
a photograph of the human aura.
Amazing colors could
be seen radiating
from human fingertips, leaves,
and other organic life forms,
proving that all living things
have energy fields or auras.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today, the world's first 3D
human aura imaging camera
and computer
technology has emerged
as a revolution in the field
of consciousness studies.
Internationally distinguished
physicist Professor Konstantin
Korotkov of St. Petersburg
Tech University in Russia
developed a way to not only see
the aura of the human organism,
plants, and organic life
forms but to also see
the real, detailed data
and information contained
in the aura's energy field.
This represents an incredible
and exciting breakthrough.
This revolutionary camera
and computer software
captures the biophotons,
or aura, radiating off
of all 10 fingertips.
>> Enter each finger.
Each finger rests
on the electrode.
>> It then transposes the
actual information of our aura
into a 3D model composite
of the entire human body.
Our biophotons transmit our
consciousness and information
just like voices and TV
pictures are transmitted
on radio and microwaves.
The information in our aura can
actually be captured and stored
in a computer.
Now we can actually measure
the amplitude, balance,
and integration of radiant
energy radiating from all seven
human energy centers.
It shows detailed data where
a person is radiant or weak
in their spiritual, emotional,
and physical bodies.
>> This one's interesting.
It has like a spiral coming off.
>> See the finger?
>> Oh.
>> It's a--
>> Krishna Madappa, an East
Indian American research
partner of Dr. Korotkov,
conducted an experiment
designed by David Sereda
with five meditators.
The purpose of these
experiments was
to scientifically demonstrate
how meditation could possibly
change and benefit
an individual's
state of consciousness
and raise their vibration.
Krishna also decided to see if
the group could effect change
in the vibration,
structure, coherence,
and organization of water placed
in a glass in front of them.
[CHANTING]
>> Why does it take thousands
of lifetimes to become as awake
as the Buddha?
>> That's an
interesting question.
Because we have so many ways to
hide, so many layers to peel,
you know?
And society doesn't want us to
be free because if we are free,
we cannot be controlled.
So society does everything to
stop the process of freedom
in humans.
>> A baseline was established
by taking energy readings
of the water before
the meditation began.
The baseline begins at 10
with parameters of 10 to 1.
This number represents
coherency, structure,
and organization of
the watchers' energy--
10 being the least and 1
being the highest measurable
potential, as in
perfect oneness.
In the first test,
the group participated
in 45 minutes of vigorous
breathing meditation that
is designed to activate
each of the seven energy
centers in the body and soul.
The group ended with 15
minutes of silent meditation.
>> The Sufi breathing,
to me, is just taking it
to a-- it's a different
type of meditation.
You're hyperventilating.
Basically, you're breathing in
and out, panting like a dog,
very, very quickly.
So you're super
enriching the bloodstream
of the body with oxygen.
So my head, at least
what I felt, was I got
a little bit dizzy.
But it was very much I opened
up in so many ways to the point
to where I began to feel like
I was in a different space.
And in my experience, towards
the end of the Sufi breathing,
I was about 45 minutes out.
I had a vision that
I became an eagle
and that I was
flying into the sun.
And I could literally
feel the rays
of the sun, the yellow rays
of the sun, impacting my body.
And I was flying along.
I could feel the
wind under my wings.
It was really different.
I had no idea I'd
ever expect anything
like this or experience
anything like this.
But it was really, really good.
And then after we did the
Sufi breathing exercise,
then I was tested
on the GDV machine.
And it showed a completely
different result.
My chakras had
become more in line.
They became larger,
especially my heart chakra.
I noticed that the heart chakra
circle became very, very large
on the computer
as we viewed that.
>> Dr. Krishna Madappa took
several readings of each
of the five participants' energy
centers and their total aura
field.
>> We are also going to get a
baseline reading of the water
in a simple principle as we
have done with the electrophoton
capture device.
And we will do
this in principle,
taking 15 frames per second
for a total of 10 seconds.
So we will take 150
frames five times.
Before and then after
the Sufi meditation,
we will again look
at a similar set.
And all this will be dynamical
images off the water.
At which point in time, once
we open it up in the program
called the Scientific
Laboratory program,
then we can see clearly
influence how the water's area,
entropy, fractality,
intensity all has
contributed before and after.
>> I met Anandamayi Ma
when I was very young.
And then I was away from
her for a long, long time.
And then I saw her again
when she was a little older.
And she was-- she was completely
merged with everything.
She was-- how can I?
You know, it's words can't
describe who she was,
who she is.
>> Yeah, Mukti, that's her.
That's not her baseline.
>> This is Mukti Ma
after Sufi breathing.
>> Yeah.
>> And you can--
>> Look at her heart chakra.
Really?
>> Yeah.
You can on one
hand, for Mukti Ma,
it is really strong when
she is in active mode, which
is why you also relish dancing.
>> Yes.
>> The African dance.
The dynamical mode for
you is very pleasant.
>> He then took several
readings of the water's energy.
Amazing results ensued.
The average energy
coherency, structure,
and organization of the
water improved by 20%
in just one hour of meditation,
registering from a baseline
of 10 and progressing to 8.
In the second meditation, the
group chanted the word "OM"
for 30 minutes.
This meditation is
designed to bring harmony
to the human body and mind.
After this meditation,
Krishna again
took several readings
of everyone's auras
and the water's energy.
>> Let me know
when you're ready.
>> What will happen now, we must
make sure that while we have
Nuala's nose there and--
>> Recovery.
>> Oh, look, look, look.
>> The nose.
>> Now we can just do her tail.
>> Her tail.
>> OK, one more time then.
OK?
>> He's got the tail though.
>> Out of my--
Oh, give me the scarf.
>> OK.
>> Nuala is like--
>> This was a study to
show is it possible to send
and quantify, measure energy
of healing, loving energy to--
sending.
So if we sent loving energy
to another being who is not
directly in front of you
but in another space,
will they receive it?
And if they receive
it, how does it show?
>> Wow.
>> That was the purpose.
And this was done with a team
of researchers in Slovenia.
>> Mhm.
>> So here we see that you've
got the person who is sending
energy.
This is the right side,
this sending of energy.
And on this side is the
receiving of energy.
So from the right side,
when you talk about,
because the emotional heart is
on the right, it is sending.
So there is a little burst.
And, of course, these
bursts I captured.
>> And it's separate
from the body.
It's leaving.
This burst is leaving the body.
>> Indeed.
>> Oh, that's amazing.
>> And the receiver
is receiving it.
And look at the
shape of that too.
>> How far away are they
physically from each other
during the experiment?
>> Two buildings.
>> Two buildings?
>> So this burst of energy
traveled two buildings and went
to--
>> This person, who
was the receiver.
>> And this is documented
scientifically as biophoton
emissions.
>> Yes, yes.
>> Honey, you got big chakras.
>> You got some big
chakras over there.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Look at the size
of those things.
[LAUGHTER]
>> That's a new way to--
I like your chakras.
>> Nice.
>> They are huge.
>> Look at her blue.
Let me just zoom in on her
blues, her inner eye chakra.
I mean, look at that.
It's like taking
up the whole head.
>> That one's after what?
>> This is after OM.
>> OK.
>> Yeah, she even told me this.
The gentle meditations
have a more--
but your inner eye chakra,
your third chakra and her crown
are very--
>> Mhm.
>> And her throat.
>> Look at that.
>> Look at the strength that
has gained from here up.
>> In the OM.
And you had a vision.
>> Yeah.
>> You said--
>> She did?
That's where the tears--
>> --going out and
opening into the clouds.
>> Yes.
I had this amazing
vision in my third eye,
which I felt both there
and above my head, a very
powerful energy.
And it was quite a unique
experience I have never
experienced before.
It was really exciting when
I was able to actually see it
on the aura machine that my
chakras that I could feel
were the most activated
showed on the machine as well.
I mean, I was also
very emotional,
and I couldn't help but cry.
And my heart chakra all the
way through to my crown chakra
was very enlarged
through that experience.
>> The average energy coherency
structure and organization
of the water had
maintained a level of 8.
The third meditation was a
two-hour Sidhi meditation.
Each meditator
pursued their own form
of insight or Sidhi meditation.
This is a very
difficult practice.
>> Near the end, I mean, my
body was in so much pain.
My legs hurt so bad.
I wanted to just move.
But something allowed me
just to relax even further
into the pain rather
than trying to escape it.
And I got to this point
where I opened my eyes,
and the sunlight coming
through the windows
and just gracing the walls.
I saw and I felt it
in my heart that God
was in the sunlight itself.
It wasn't-- God
wasn't-- you know,
there wasn't this spiritual
light in the room.
There was just sunlight.
But the sunlight, I was so aware
that the sunlight touched me
so deeply.
I was moved to the most
incredible emotions in my heart
chakra.
And tears and goosebumps
came for hours afterward just
in waves.
It was such a deep
experience to see
God was in the sunlight itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> After two hours
of meditation,
Krishna took several
readings of everyone's auras
and the watchers' energy.
>> What we are looking at is
a dynamical image of photons
and electrons cascading
onto this suspended droplet.
>> The water's energy went
from a baseline of 10 to 5.5,
which means it went nearly half
way to its total potential.
This was astounding.
David Sereda explains.
>> The idea that
my consciousness,
that our consciousness
as a group,
that we affected
a glass of water,
and we transform its energy, its
coherency, and its structure,
and we cause it to progress
halfway to its total
potential-- its
total potential--
1 being the highest
value, 10 being
the lowest, 1 being the closest
we can get to absolute oneness,
is amazing.
How do we do it?
How did our brains and
our state of consciousness
cause the water to transform?
How did it actually occur?
Well, if we look at the
idea that we are not
just a particle, an
organism, that we
have this aura, this energy
field, as this field extends
beyond the physical
boundaries, it's
exchanging information
with everything around it.
In fact, I don't believe this
is just occurring with water.
Water is the easiest to see
how consciousness is affecting
reality because the hydrogen
and the oxygen atoms in H2O
are actually the
simplest structures,
and then they're the easiest
to see these effects.
We're probably affecting
the wood, the wall,
in fact, each other,
the planet even,
and even beyond the planet.
We're affecting everything
with our consciousness.
>> Imagine for a moment
if a hurricane was coming
in the future.
But now, as people,
instead of what
we're doing with the
weather forecasts, which
is we're amplifying
the fear and looking
at all the blowing of the winds
and all the torment and so on,
imagine instead we had
millions or billions
of people simultaneously engaged
in an organized, synchronized,
guided imagery over the media
sending loving intentions
and calming
intentions to a storm
or even with redirecting
it to a safer environment.
Would we find that the
storm has diminished?
storm might be moved?
We'll never discover it
unless we look for it.
If we don't ask the questions
and we don't try it,
we'll never know whether
it matters or not.
>> The question is, how is
this actually occurring?
We have to look at quantum
modeling of the atom
and smaller to see the answer.
And the answer,
as we look at it,
was first discovered
by a physicist named
Walter Schempp, who in the 1990s
found that atoms all around us,
in our bodies, and in the
air mass, in the space,
are actually exchanging
information with each other,
having a dialogue.
So the key is how is this
information propagated
through the space-time medium?
How is this occurring?
Atoms are talking to each other
and exchanging information
all the time.
And the way that it
actually works is like this.
If we look at the diameter of
an electron spinning around
in the proton in
a hydrogen atom,
what physicists discovered
is electrons jump shells
or wavelengths.
They change wavelengths, which
means they change diameter.
What Niels Bohr discovered
is that when electrons
jump into shorter diameters,
they go into a higher frequency
orbit.
And when they do that,
the atom radiates off
some of its energy in
the form of a light wave,
in the form of electromagnetism.
And then when electrons go
back to a longer wavelength,
they jump back out to
a greater diameter,
the atom is actually
receiving electromagnetism.
And this has been known
since the early 1900s.
What Walter Schempp discovers
in this process of sending out
energy in the form
of electromagnetism
and receiving energy in the
form of electromagnetism,
that these transmissions and
receptions were not blank,
meaning he discovered they had
intelligent information encoded
in them, which means that
just like we talk on the radio
and we tag the human voice
onto a radio wave which travels
at the speed of light,
and that we send pictures
and voices on microwaves which
travel at the speed of light,
which is television,
that the atom was doing
the same thing,
that atoms that live
in this giant, enormous
universal field
of consciousness, these
atoms are actually
talking to each other
on a regular basis.
And what happens is, what
Schempp discovered, and he
proved this scientifically, is
that when the atom is sending
out a light wave, it has
information and data actually
tagged onto the light wave.
And then when it
receives a light wave,
it actually is receiving
not just a light wave
but actual information and data
is recorded on the light wave.
>> While Walter Schempp's
intelligent atom shows how
communication can happen in
less than a second over a small
sphere of distance,
such as the Earth,
and within minutes
inside the solar system,
it cannot explain how
communication between two
points can happen
instantaneously regardless
of distance in the universe,
such as between galaxies
millions of light years apart.
But Einstein's discovery of
spooky action at a distance
demonstrates how consciousness
can travel between two points
instantaneously.
This identifies a field
that is able to send
conscious information
not only faster
than light but instantaneously
over any distance.
Einstein was spooked by it
because no theory in physics
could explain it, not even his.
But they could verify that
it was actually happening.
>> Two ideas are entangled
when they have a shared space
and become part of
a system together,
most frequently described in
an atomic scale as, let's say,
two electrons in
near the same space.
They can't be exactly the same.
So one way they're
different is to have
what people refer to as spin,
one opposite to the other.
That allows them
to share the space.
And this shared system
is called entangled.
These two items, element,
which could be two people,
are entangled with each
other if they share qualities
of the universe in their space.
And if you fall in
love with somebody,
you are entangled
with that person.
If you belong to a group that
gets together and has deep,
stimulating discussion, you
become entangled in such a way
that all of you share
some aspect of the others.
In any case, this
kind of entanglement,
even though we haven't
been able to demonstrate it
in strong terms in macroscopic
cases like two people,
it's real, demonstrable, and
a function of atomic systems.
And we're gradually moving
toward demonstrating
in laboratory experiments that
it can happen at larger scale
systems.
It doesn't seem there
should be any limit on that.
So people undoubtedly can be
entangled with each other.
>> When scientists took
a mother and baby rabbit,
separating them over
a great distance,
they hooked both their brains
up to EEGs and atomic clocks
to measure the event.
They pinpricked the baby
rabbit, and the mother
felt it instantaneously--
not at the speed of light, which
is 186,282 miles per second,
but they felt it
instantaneously.
When Alain Aspect,
the French physicist,
did the same experiment
by separating
electron, anti-electron
pairs over great distances,
he found when stimulating
the properties of one
of the pairs, the other
over a great distance
would respond instantaneously.
How did this happen?
What conscious
field is there that
is beyond light-speed
communication and observation?
>> My friend Dean
Radin, for example,
believed that entanglement
is not just for atoms,
that we can have entanglement at
bigger scales and, ultimately,
at macroscopic scales and
suggests that when we are
communicating in what appears
to be an impossible way,
using telepathy or some kind
of a psychic connection,
that that can be described
and maybe accurately using
the terms of entanglement.
>> OK.
Yes, I truly, 100% believe
that everyone is psychic.
I think that some people have
a easier time bringing out
their abilities once
they know the techniques
and how to control them.
And really, more
so than a matter
of having the ability because,
again, we all have it,
it's more a matter of are
people disciplined enough
to practice the techniques?
Are they courageous enough
to see what is coming,
and to let themselves
see the information,
and then to communicate it?
I think some people are better
suited to reading people.
And when I say "reading,"
I mean picking up
information about
anything from their past
to present to a little
bit of their future.
So I think that some people are
better suited to reading people
whereas other psychics are
better suited to picking up
information about, say,
remote locations or lost
objects or world events.
It's just like any other skill.
Some people, say,
with musical talent
are good at reading music.
Others are good at
improvising and then getting
into the different
styles of music.
And it's the same thing
with your psychic abilities.
Another comparison
here is that anybody
has the ability to at least
bang out some notes on a piano.
And then there's, obviously,
prodigies from the time
that they're born.
And it's really the same thing
with your psychic abilities.
And I'm just blown away
that, both with myself,
that I could have lived
to almost the age of 29,
and there's people who die,
millions of people who die,
without ever really realizing
the extent of their abilities.
And I think that it's just so
important that, for one, we
get over this idea that there
is only a few gifted people
out there with these abilities.
That's completely not true.
Most people have them.
>> One of the amazing features
of entanglement and probably
one of the reasons that
it's so hard for many people
to comprehend or believe in is
that it really goes all the way
down or all the way back.
So in a strong
sense, the Big Bang,
if that's the way
the universe started,
was an entangled state.
And all of whatever developed
after that still is entangled.
This implies even if it's
not true in complete detail,
the model suggests that we are
entangled with each other even
at huge distances.
Coming down to
earth, so to speak,
I think it means
without much question
that there is some, a little
bit of entanglement present
in the relationships of
everybody on the planet.
So it shouldn't
be very surprising
when we discover that a
big event in the world,
like the tragedy of 9/11,
causes very, very large numbers
of people to think about
the same kind of thing,
increase their
entanglement, and result
in a measure on our
random event system,
which we haven't talked
about in detail yet,
but we probably should.
>> Is there a god
consciousness field?
It's remarkable if we consider
the Bible book of Genesis
in the first and second
verses that God is actually
creating the universe
and the Earth
by moving God's spirit
over the face of water.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If a small group
of human brains can
affect the structure of water,
scientifically demonstrated,
then perhaps we
can understand how
God, the overall
consciousness of the universe,
created the universe
and the Earth
and the planets the same
way, just on a grander scale.
But if we are affecting water
and everything around us
all the time with our
consciousness, what
will happen when we become
a mature and singular
civilization?
What kind of power
will we possess then?
>> We may be inadvertently
affecting all kinds of events,
from weather through growth
through literally how people
are behaving.
If you have half a billion
people having hatred
for another group of people,
that summated intention
and energy, if you follow just
where our research is going,
our lab and other labs,
leads us to the conclusion
that we are going to be having
these synergistic effects,
that we're all interconnected
through our consciousness
and our energy.
And so therefore, we need
to become conscious of this.
And then we need to be able
to transform our consciousness
so we can take more
responsibility for the effects
that we're having on everything
else in our environment.
>> One time you said to me,
there is no universe outside
this mind.
This mind is the universe.
And I really love--
[LAUGHING]
>> Yeah, this very
realistic thing, huh?
Very practical thing.
Universe or mind is,
day or night, our life.
>> Quantum physicists are
now seeing that the mind
and the universe, the observer
and the observed, are the same.
They affect each other.
They're in a constant
relationship.
>> There's a distinction
between saying,
where can all this information
be stored versus where can all
this information be processed?
>> OK.
Yeah, right.
>> In terms of the
storage question,
what quantum physics tells
us, and particularly when you
integrate that with
systems theory,
what you therefore realize is
that you can store an infinite
amount of information in
an infinitely small space.
And you can think about this
if you imagine, for example,
that we're out in space.
And we're much tinier
than a pinhead.
And there's light coming
from all directions
from all these
distant galaxies which
contains informations about
billions and billions of stars,
right?
And all this information
is crisscrossing
through the universe.
So everything's coming
in all directions.
It's all crisscrossing
all at the same time.
And if you are in
a tiny little spot,
if you had spherical
consciousness
or spherical
vision, you could be
seeing the light
coming from here,
and the light coming from here,
and the light coming here,
and light coming-- and
all of it's crisscrossing.
And the amazing thing is all of
that's going on all the time.
And none of it's
getting distorted.
In fact, photons literally
can cross one another.
And they may summate
or they may cancel.
We call it cancel out.
They appear to
summate or cancel.
But after they've
crossed each other,
they go on as if
nothing had happened.
And if that wasn't the case,
when we looked up at the sky
at night, we would see mush
because all the photons
would be interacting with
all the other photons.
And they would be just creating
a complex, quote, "mess."
So instead, the universe
appears to be designed
to be able to have all
this information from all
these directions constantly
mixing in every part of space
simultaneously, and none
of it gets mixed up.
So if you think
about that power,
forgetting about
how that happens,
let's just say that
it does happen.
That's why you and I can
look up at the sky at night.
And our little
pupils are this big.
We're seeing this
gigantic vastness.
All that star information
is going into your pupil.
It's going into my pupil.
It's going on simultaneously.
So all that holistic
information is simultaneously
present in every single spot.
We take that idea,
which is a fact.
Forgetting about how
it works, it works.
And then what you do
is you combine one
with the idea of a system.
And a system is two or more
things that are connected.
And they're sending feedback,
circulating information
and energy back and forth.
And through the interaction,
the parts come together.
And the whole becomes,
quote, "greater
than the sum of its parts."
Hydrogen and oxygen
come together.
They're two gases.
They send, have feedback.
They circulate energy
and information.
And what happens?
We've got a liquid
called water which
has all the unique
properties of waterness.
Now what's common among
every system, whether it's
an electron and a
proton in an atom,
or whether it's two
molecules coming together,
or whether it's two strands
of DNA, or two cells,
be it in the heart or the brain,
or two people, or two planets,
or two gal-- it doesn't matter.
If the components are sharing
information and energy
and it's circulating,
then what happens
is that there is a storage
process that takes place.
And this storage process
is also an evolving one.
The take-home message,
the way that this first
came to me when I was a
professor at Yale many years
ago, is what goes around and
stays around evolves around.
Information, it
doesn't all disappear.
Not only is it preserved,
but it can potentially
grow because it
can be influenced
by the other things around it.
Once you recognize
that idea, then you
realize that not only does
everything at every level
have, quote, "memory."
It's called the systemic memory.
But this memory is in a
state of constant evolution.
In fact, a prerequisite for
learning itself is feedback.
And we know that's the case.
I mean, we know in daily
life if we want to learn,
for example, to shoot
a basket or learn
to play a musical
instrument, we have
to get feedback about whether
we're making the right notes
or whether we're getting
the baskets in the ball.
The feedback is what provides
us with a corrective process.
It's called negative feedback
or positive feedback.
Now it turns out that feedback
operates at every level,
from the tiniest micro level to
the most gigantic macro level
and every level in between.
So you take the infinite nature
of the storage of information
in the vacuum of
space with photons,
and now you add systems
operating the feedback loops
at every single level.
And all of a sudden,
you realize what
we call the neural network
of our brain, which
makes our brain's
capability for processing
all this information.
Imagine now that each
of our individual brains
are part of a much
bigger brain, which
happens to be on the Earth.
And the Earth is part of
a planetary brain, which
becomes part of a solar system
brain, that then becomes
part of a galactic brain.
And what I mean by
brain here is a network
of circulating feedback loops.
Then what you realize
is at every level
you get this process of
assimilation of ever more
complex information.
And if that boggles the
mind, well, too bad.
We just have to expand our
mind to be able to see this.
>> In '84, so it's interesting
to see that we have both
Democrat and Republican
presidents involved
in different aspects of this
Department of Peace movement
that would actually be a
US Department of Peace.
So actually, this
current bill that's
in Congress right
now, HR 808, was
written and first introduced
by Congressman Dennis Kucinich
from Ohio in July 11, 2001,
which, to me, is very important
to remember the date because
it was exactly two months
before 9/11.
And the legislation was
written as a proactive,
solution-oriented
new department,
tiny new department, that
would be at the table, sitting
at the table, with
the president and all
the different department
heads to actually
be another tool
for the president
to decide if we have
no other options,
then perhaps we would
have to go to war.
But if we did have other
options, a lot of those options
would come from the
secretary of peace.
And so congressman Kucinich
introduced this bill
in July of 2001.
I heard about it
in the newspaper.
I wrote him a fan letter.
And I said, Dear Congressman
Kucinich, thank you
for introducing
this legislation,
which is incredible legislation.
We were a country at
peace, July 11, 2001.
We were fairly peaceful
around the world.
And I said, you know, you and
I are both from Cleveland.
We're both raised Catholic.
We're both short.
And we're both vegetarian,
and although he's vegan.
So I said, we have
a lot in common.
We both love peace.
And so he wrote me
back a very nice letter
thanking me for my interest.
And then it wasn't until
Marianne Williamson, who is now
a friend of mine, had an
email list in March of 2003,
so about a year
and a half later.
Marianne invited
anybody that would
like to go to
Washington to learn
about this Department
of Peace legislation,
to learn how to
go into our Senate
and congressional offices
on the Hill in Washington,
and to have intelligent
conversations with our elected
representatives about
creating a sister department,
a new department, which would
be this Department of Peace.
And so I went to Washington.
There were six of us from
Arizona-- joined 200 people.
So that was four years ago.
So it was the United
States working
on creating a
Department of Peace.
And now here we are four
years later in May of 2007
with 28 countries
now around the world
working to create
departments of peace,
with 50,000 grassroots
volunteers around the country
and the world that
are networking
with all kinds of
groups, educating people
about what the Department of
Peace legislation is all about.
[MUSIC PLAYING]